confluence/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: confluence
description: Manage Confluence wiki pages, spaces, comments, labels, and attachments. Search content using CQL queries.
---

# Confluence Skill

This skill provides comprehensive Confluence wiki operations through the Atlassian REST API v2.

## Available Operations

This skill is organized into granular operation files:

- **[Managing Pages](managing-pages.md)** - Create, read, update, and delete Confluence pages
- **[Managing Spaces](managing-spaces.md)** - List, create, and manage Confluence spaces
- **[Managing Comments](managing-comments.md)** - Add, view, and delete page comments
- **[Managing Labels](managing-labels.md)** - Add, view, and remove page labels
- **[Searching Content](searching-content.md)** - Search Confluence using CQL (Confluence Query Language)
- **[Managing Attachments](managing-attachments.md)** - View and manage page attachments

## Configuration

### Authentication Methods

This skill supports two authentication methods:

1. **Personal Access Token (PAT)** - Bearer token authentication
2. **Basic Authentication** - Email + API token

**Precedence Rule**: If both authentication methods are configured, PAT authentication takes precedence.

### Option 1: Personal Access Token (PAT)

Personal Access Tokens provide a simple, single-token authentication method. Use PAT when:
- You prefer a single credential to manage
- Your organization uses PAT-based authentication
- You're working with Confluence Data Center or Server

#### Required Environment Variables

```
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_PAT=your-personal-access-token
```

#### Creating a PAT

For Confluence Cloud, create a PAT at: https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens

> **Note for Confluence Cloud Users**: The same Atlassian account URL is used for both API tokens and Personal Access Tokens. Tokens created at this URL can be used with either authentication method. The distinction is in how you authenticate, not in the token type itself:
> - **PAT (Bearer Token)**: Used directly in the `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
> - **API Token (Basic Auth)**: Used with your email in Basic authentication (`email:token` base64-encoded)
>
> The choice between PAT and API token authentication is about your authentication method preference and organizational requirements, not about different token types. Both options use tokens generated from the same Atlassian API tokens page.

For Confluence Data Center/Server, navigate to your profile settings and select "Personal Access Tokens".

### Option 2: Basic Authentication (Email + API Token)

Basic authentication uses your email address combined with an API token. Use Basic Auth when:
- You're using Confluence Cloud
- Your organization requires email-based audit trails
- You need compatibility with existing API token infrastructure

#### Required Environment Variables

```
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN=your-api-token
```

#### Creating an API Token

Create an API token at: https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens

### Environment File Locations

Environment variables are loaded in the following order of precedence:

1. **Project-level**: `.claude/env` (in the current working directory)
2. **User-level**: `~/.claude/env` (in the user's home directory)

The first file found is used.

### Example Configurations

#### Example .claude/env with PAT Authentication

```bash
# Confluence API Configuration (PAT)
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_PAT=your-personal-access-token
```

#### Example .claude/env with Basic Authentication

```bash
# Confluence API Configuration (Basic Auth)
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN=your-api-token
```

### Authentication Precedence

When multiple authentication methods are configured:

1. **CONFLUENCE_PAT** is checked first - if set, Bearer token authentication is used
2. **CONFLUENCE_EMAIL + CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN** are used as fallback for Basic authentication
3. If neither method is configured, an error is displayed with setup instructions

## Security Best Practices

### Token Management

Follow these best practices to keep your authentication tokens secure:

#### Token Security

- **Never commit tokens to version control** - Always use environment files (`.claude/env`) and ensure they are listed in `.gitignore`
- **Use environment variables** - Avoid hardcoding tokens in scripts or configuration files
- **Limit token scope** - When possible, create tokens with the minimum required permissions for your use case. See [Atlassian's API token documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/) for details on token permissions and scopes
- **Use separate tokens** - Create different tokens for different environments (development, staging, production)

#### Token Rotation

- **Regular rotation** - Rotate your tokens periodically (recommended: every 90 days, aligned with [NIST SP 800-63B](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html) guidelines for credential management)
- **Immediate rotation** - Rotate tokens immediately if:
  - A token may have been exposed or compromised
  - An employee with token access leaves the organization
  - You suspect unauthorized access to your systems
- **Document rotation procedures** - Maintain runbooks for token rotation to minimize downtime

#### Token Storage

- **Use secure storage** - Store tokens in secure credential management systems when possible
- **Environment file permissions** - Restrict read access to `.claude/env` files (`chmod 600 .claude/env`)
- **Avoid logging** - Never log tokens or include them in error messages
- **Clear clipboard** - After copying tokens, clear your clipboard to prevent accidental exposure

#### Monitoring and Auditing

- **Monitor token usage** - Review Atlassian admin logs for unusual API activity
- **Set up alerts** - Configure alerts for failed authentication attempts
- **Regular audits** - Periodically review which tokens exist and revoke unused ones

## API Reference

All operations use the Confluence REST API v2 at `{CONFLUENCE_URL}/api/v2`.

For detailed API documentation, see: https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/confluence/rest/v2/intro/

Commit message:

docs(CS-18): Add specific NIST SP 800-63B section reference
Enhanced the NIST SP 800-63B reference in PAT security documentation to include a direct link to Section 5 (Authenticator and Verifier Requirements).

confluence/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: confluence
description: Manage Confluence wiki pages, spaces, comments, labels, and attachments. Search content using CQL queries.
---

# Confluence Skill

This skill provides comprehensive Confluence wiki operations through the Atlassian REST API v2.

## Available Operations

This skill is organized into granular operation files:

- **[Managing Pages](managing-pages.md)** - Create, read, update, and delete Confluence pages
- **[Managing Spaces](managing-spaces.md)** - List, create, and manage Confluence spaces
- **[Managing Comments](managing-comments.md)** - Add, view, and delete page comments
- **[Managing Labels](managing-labels.md)** - Add, view, and remove page labels
- **[Searching Content](searching-content.md)** - Search Confluence using CQL (Confluence Query Language)
- **[Managing Attachments](managing-attachments.md)** - View and manage page attachments

## Configuration

### Authentication Methods

This skill supports two authentication methods:

1. **Personal Access Token (PAT)** - Bearer token authentication
2. **Basic Authentication** - Email + API token

**Precedence Rule**: If both authentication methods are configured, PAT authentication takes precedence.

### Option 1: Personal Access Token (PAT)

Personal Access Tokens provide a simple, single-token authentication method. Use PAT when:
- You prefer a single credential to manage
- Your organization uses PAT-based authentication
- You're working with Confluence Data Center or Server

#### Required Environment Variables

```
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_PAT=your-personal-access-token
```

#### Creating a PAT

For Confluence Cloud, create a PAT at: https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens

> **Note for Confluence Cloud Users**: The same Atlassian account URL is used for both API tokens and Personal Access Tokens. Tokens created at this URL can be used with either authentication method. The distinction is in how you authenticate, not in the token type itself:
> - **PAT (Bearer Token)**: Used directly in the `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
> - **API Token (Basic Auth)**: Used with your email in Basic authentication (`email:token` base64-encoded)
>
> The choice between PAT and API token authentication is about your authentication method preference and organizational requirements, not about different token types. Both options use tokens generated from the same Atlassian API tokens page.

For Confluence Data Center/Server, navigate to your profile settings and select "Personal Access Tokens".

### Option 2: Basic Authentication (Email + API Token)

Basic authentication uses your email address combined with an API token. Use Basic Auth when:
- You're using Confluence Cloud
- Your organization requires email-based audit trails
- You need compatibility with existing API token infrastructure

#### Required Environment Variables

```
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN=your-api-token
```

#### Creating an API Token

Create an API token at: https://id.atlassian.com/manage-profile/security/api-tokens

### Environment File Locations

Environment variables are loaded in the following order of precedence:

1. **Project-level**: `.claude/env` (in the current working directory)
2. **User-level**: `~/.claude/env` (in the user's home directory)

The first file found is used.

### Example Configurations

#### Example .claude/env with PAT Authentication

```bash
# Confluence API Configuration (PAT)
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_PAT=your-personal-access-token
```

#### Example .claude/env with Basic Authentication

```bash
# Confluence API Configuration (Basic Auth)
CONFLUENCE_URL=https://your-domain.atlassian.net/wiki
CONFLUENCE_EMAIL=your-email@example.com
CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN=your-api-token
```

### Authentication Precedence

When multiple authentication methods are configured:

1. **CONFLUENCE_PAT** is checked first - if set, Bearer token authentication is used
2. **CONFLUENCE_EMAIL + CONFLUENCE_API_TOKEN** are used as fallback for Basic authentication
3. If neither method is configured, an error is displayed with setup instructions

## Security Best Practices

### Token Management

Follow these best practices to keep your authentication tokens secure:

#### Token Security

- **Never commit tokens to version control** - Always use environment files (`.claude/env`) and ensure they are listed in `.gitignore`
- **Use environment variables** - Avoid hardcoding tokens in scripts or configuration files
- **Limit token scope** - When possible, create tokens with the minimum required permissions for your use case. See [Atlassian's API token documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/) for details on token permissions and scopes
- **Use separate tokens** - Create different tokens for different environments (development, staging, production)

#### Token Rotation

- **Regular rotation** - Rotate your tokens periodically (recommended: every 90 days, aligned with [NIST SP 800-63B Section 5: Authenticator and Verifier Requirements](https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html#sec5) guidelines for credential management)
- **Immediate rotation** - Rotate tokens immediately if:
  - A token may have been exposed or compromised
  - An employee with token access leaves the organization
  - You suspect unauthorized access to your systems
- **Document rotation procedures** - Maintain runbooks for token rotation to minimize downtime

#### Token Storage

- **Use secure storage** - Store tokens in secure credential management systems when possible
- **Environment file permissions** - Restrict read access to `.claude/env` files (`chmod 600 .claude/env`)
- **Avoid logging** - Never log tokens or include them in error messages
- **Clear clipboard** - After copying tokens, clear your clipboard to prevent accidental exposure

#### Monitoring and Auditing

- **Monitor token usage** - Review Atlassian admin logs for unusual API activity
- **Set up alerts** - Configure alerts for failed authentication attempts
- **Regular audits** - Periodically review which tokens exist and revoke unused ones

## API Reference

All operations use the Confluence REST API v2 at `{CONFLUENCE_URL}/api/v2`.

For detailed API documentation, see: https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/confluence/rest/v2/intro/
